I don't want to go
on a rant here
but America's foreign policy
makes about as much sense
as Beowulf having sex
with Robert Fulton
at the First Battle of Antietam.
I mean, when a neoconservative
defenestrates
it's like Raskolnikov
filibuster deoxymonohydroxynate.
What the hell does "rant" mean?
♪♪ It seems today
that all you see ♪♪
♪♪ Is violence in movies
and sex on TV ♪♪
♪♪ But where are those good
old-fashioned values ♪♪
♪♪ On which we used to rely? ♪♪
♪♪ Lucky there's a family guy ♪♪
♪♪ Lucky there's a man who
positively can do ♪♪
♪♪ All the things
that make us ♪♪
♪♪ Laugh and cry ♪♪
♪♪ He's...
a... fam... ily... guy! ♪♪
Go, Dust Mites!
I wish they'd put
Chris in already.
Peter, relax.
It's his first game.
Griffin, get in there.
Oh, they're
sending him in.
Yay, Chris!
Attaboy Chris!
Oh, yeah, that's
my son out there.
I taught him
how to wipe.
Why won't you teach
me how to wipe, Dad?
Because you don't
have a bottom, son.
Aw...
Yeah, man, you and
that towel are representin'.
Yo, that sweat's
just frontin', G.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Buddy
Cianci Junior High Cheerleaders.
Is everybody pumped up?!
Yeah!
Give me a D-U-S-T!
D-U-S-T!
M-I-T-E-S!
What does that spell?!
Dust Mites!
Who's going to win this game?!
My God, what...
what just happened to me?
It's those sirens.
They had us all completely
under their spell
like that hypnotist
at the airport Hilton.
And... three!
Wow. Were we
just hypnotized?
That's incredible.
I don't remember a thing.
Why do I taste crotch?
I must unlock the secret
to their mind-control powers.
Lois, can we go now?
I'm starving.
The game's
almost over, Peter.
Try to think
about something else.
Ah...
Peter!
Oh, sorry.
Hey nice job out
there tonight, Chris.
You wiped the floor
with that towel.
Yo, did y'all check me
when that hottie
was all up in my Kool-Aid?
Yeah, I was looking to break off
a little somethin' somethin'
but my crew gave me
the 411 on that skank
and she's all
about the bling-bling.
Peter, what's wrong?
He's speaking in
tongues, Lois.
Our son is possessed.
Meg, start at Psalm 41
and don't stop reading
till I tell you.
The power of Christ
compels you.
( shrieking )
The power of Christ
compels you.
( shrieking )
Peter, stop.
He's not possessed.
Yeah, he's just talking street.
Lots of kids do it.
Oh. Well, that's
kind of weird.
Pete, that's
just a phase.
You've gone through
a few yourself,
you know.
Yeah, like
those two weeks
you spent
narrating your own life.
I walked into the kitchen
and sat down at the table.
I looked with a grimace
at the questionable meal
Lois had placed
in front of me.
Of course, I'd never tell
her how disgusted I was
with her cooking, but
somehow, I think she knew.
Lois had always been full
of energy and life
but lately I had
begun to grow more aware of her aging.
The bright,
exuberant eyes
that I had fallen
in love with
were now beginning to
grow dull and listless
with the long fatigue
of a weary life.
I awoke several hours
later in a daze.
♪♪ I was brought up on the
street, no moms and dads ♪♪
♪♪ I had to fend for myself
with my own two hands ♪♪
♪♪ But today I'm hurtin'
and I'll tell you why ♪♪
♪♪ I got a hangnail ♪♪
♪♪ Hangnail! ♪♪
♪♪ Hanging from my cuticle,
a hangnail ♪♪
♪♪ Hangnail! ♪♪
♪♪ It ain't beautiful ♪♪
♪♪ It hurts like a bitch ♪♪
♪♪ That I did last night ♪♪
Hey, Chris,
whatcha doing?
Just layin' back
in da cut
peepin' at this
here homey.
Yo, Pops, me have
some cheddar?
Some player haters
be throwin' salt
in my game
grillin' me
over my gear
and I needs to
be mackin' style.
Well, uh...
the important thing is
you tried, son.
There they are. Very well.
And now to infiltrate this coven
and learn
their mind-control secrets
I just need
to get their attention.
Okay, that was
much better
but it still sucked worse
than anything I've ever seen.
What's wrong
with you guys?
Oh, look how
cute he is.
He must be one
of the teachers' babies.
Oh, he wants to be
a cheerleader, too.
My, so it's that easy
to win you over.
Oh, consider
yourselves lucky
I'm not after
your gully-holes.
And, and, and then
Chris starts in
with all this
"yo-yo-yo" stuff
and I-I don't know
what the hell
he's talking about.
So I started
beating him with a hose
then my arm got tired
and so I came here.
Peter, perhaps
Chris has adopted
another culture's
mannerisms
because he doesn't know
enough about his own.
Aw, gee,
I never thought of that.
Hey, you know, I should teach
Chris about his Irish roots.
Besides, we haven't
spent any time together
since we played Operation.
I'm going
for the funny bone, Dad.
Oh, you touched
the sides.
Aw, geez,
he's waking up.
Quick, let's get him
back to the bus station.
Dad, I don't
want to be here.
I want to be chillin'
with my homeys.
Now, Chris,
it's important
you learn about
your Irish heritage.
( praying )
( crying )
Ancient archaeological
evidence indicates
that Ireland was a
much different place
before the discovery
of alcohol.
Most experts believe it
was something like this.
Gentlemen, today we,
Ireland's top scientists
have found a way
to convert
our entire population
to pure energy.
Oh, it's a
glorious day.
It's a glorious day.
Hey, Michael McLeod's
just invented
a new kind of beverage
in his basement.
Hmm. Whiskey.
( laughing, shrieking )
You were right, Dad.
Being Irish rocks.
That's more like it, son.
Now, today
we're going to learn
about the Griffin
family history.
What's a library, Dad?
Oh, it's just a place
where homeless people
come to shave
and go B.M.
Let's go inside.
Look, Dad, I found this
book on our genealogy.
Huh. Way to go, son.
Hey, look, here's a picture
of your great-great-
granddad, Osias Griffin.
He owned one of the
first dozen telephones.
( phone ringing )
Hello?
Hello, Jonathan?
No, what number are you calling?
Seven.
Well, this is three.
Oh, sorry.
And his great-grandpa
was Thomas Griffin,
a great philosopher.
Thomas, would
you please
go look for a job.
Why?
Wow! That's cool.
Go back even further, Dad.
Okay, settle down, spaz.
"In 1840, Nathaniel 'Nate'
Griffin used to groom horses."
What the hell...?
Holy crap, I'm black.
But I... I...
I can't be black.
I got to say, Peter
the man in this book does
look an awful lot like you.
The Diary of Nate Griffin.
"May 7, 1836.
"I was brushing down Lucy,
the new colt
"when she let out a fart
right near my face.
"So I took her head
and stuck it by my butt
and blew a huge fart
right back at her."
( laughing )
Oh, uh...
that laugh's in here, too.
See? "Hehehehehehehe."
Wow. Then it's true.
Cool! I get
to be black and Irish!
Yeah, and now I can wear clothes
that actually show off
my big butt!
Oh, I got
to tell Bonnie
I'm sleeping
with a black man!
Oh, my God!
Update! Exclaim!
Scott Martin just
asked me out again.
Oh, my God, this
is date number three!
Are you going to let
him get to second base?
I think that
would be a bad idea
and I know something
about bad ideas.
I'm...
I'm telling you, Juice
she's screwing around
behind your back.
And, if I were
in your Bruno Maglis
I wouldn't stand for it.
Another mai tai.
Thanks.
So, listen...
Here comes Scott.
Oh, my God!
Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
( laughing )
Have yet to discover the secret
of their mind-control powers.
Also, trying to comprehend
their obsession
with the homosexuals
from 'N Sync.
Hey, uh, Cleveland,
you got a minute?
I really need
to talk to you.
Sure, I was just
going for a ride.
Hop on.
So, I found out
I have a black ancestor.
Is that right?
Well, that's
fantastic, Peter.
Yeah, but see,
the problem is
I, I, I got no idea
how to be black.
Except for not smiling when
I get my picture taken.
Well, Peter, it sounds like
you should go out and commingle
amongst your newly found
brethren.
You know, absorb the culture.
Wheelie time!
Yee-haw!
Aah!
You know, you're
right, Cleveland.
I should be hanging
around more black people like myself.
Thanks.
( motorcycle idling loudly)
Hey, Peter, what the...
It's the vibration.
Who here used to wear
a lot of Jherri Curl?
Yeah, that's right.
Y'all know that
Exxon Valdez thing?
That ain't how it happened.
Some brother just fell
in the ocean.
( laughing )
Oh, God, I remember that.
And all those seals died.
It was...
it was all over the news.
The Channel 2 News
with Dan Rather.
Although I think Connie Chung
might have been substituting
for him that night.
Well, about time for me to be
hitting the old dusty trail.
I like your hat.
Can't get out that way.
( alarm blaring )
Oh, found the
emergency exit.
And 1967 was the same year
that Thurgood Marshall
was named to the Supreme Court
of the United States.
Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo!
Woo! Woo! Woo!
Well, I should probably
be saddling up now.
( alarm blaring )
Oh, found the fire door.
Ugh, look at how fat you are.
You disgust me.
Oink-oink, fatty.
Oh, yes, you'll take butter on
that English muffin, won't you
because you're the cheerleading
squad's token blimp.
You don't deserve to eat.
( retches )
Hey, thanks for bringing
me here, Cleveland.
Welcome.
For our first order of business
I believe Brother Cleveland
has an announcement.
Yesterday I received reparations
from the family
that enslaved my ancestors.
Amen!
( applause )
Now the family has become
poor white trash since then
so they only gave
what they could--
this tray of scrumptious
Rice Krispie treats.
I share them with all of you
in the hopes
that one day your wounds
may be healed as well.
-Amen!
-Right on, man, right on.
Hey, why is he taking one?
Oh, this is my friend
Peter Griffin.
He recently discovered
he was black.
He doesn't look
very black to me.
Oh, gentlemen, gentlemen
gentlemen, please.
Please, judge me not
by the color of my skin
for I have always
been there with you.
( murmuring dissent )
I was there when
George and Weezie
moved on up to the East Side.
Sing it!
Movin' on up.
Now you talking history.
Hallelujah,
those were happy times.
Yes, but, but I was also there
for the bad times.
Yes, he was.
Uh-huh.
When Florida lost James
to that tragic auto accident.
Now you talking real.
And I was there when Tootie got
those terribly painful braces.
Oh, yeah, that hurt.
Oh, yes, and when Arnold Jackson
got beat up by the Gooch
I was there.
So before you decide
that I don't belong here
remember this--
I was there!
( cheering )
Way to go, Peter.
You tell it like it is.
Now, Chris,
this one's for you:
What's the secret
to happiness?
Money.
Very good.
Babs, give him a caramel.
Hey-hey-hey.
Hey, Lois, what are
your parents doing here?
Oh, they surprised us
with a visit
after I told them
about your recent discovery.
Yes, Peter, we hear
you're a Negro now.
Yep, I even got
my own posse.
Hey, uh, Big Dog,
T-Bone, Shades
you guys
go make yourself some sandwiches.
We'll hook up later.
My jacket's in the kitchen.
Please don't write on it.
Well, I think Chris and Meg
should know
the Pewterschmidt side
of their ancestry, too.
Kids, did you know
the Pewterschmidts
were among the first
to colonize America?
Now, kids, don't be taken in
by the Man.
Stay black and proud.
Here's your ancestor
Silas Pewterschmidt
bartering with
some local Indians.
-Cool.
-And here's a picture of...
Oh, uh, never mind that one.
Wait, wait, wait,
what was that?
Oh, that was nothing.
Just some fellow
we fed and took care of
in exchange for doing
a few chores.
You mean a slave.
Let me see that.
Oh, my God.
It's Nate Griffin.
Well, 'bout time for me to be
hitting the old dusty trail.
Lois, your family
owned my family.
Daddy, is that true?
Well, it appears so.
Boy, this is pretty
embarrassing.
Yes, it is. And don't
call me "boy!"
Peter, please, calm down.
Babs, I think it's time
we went to bed.
Things will look better
in the morning.
Come here, kids. Give Grandma
and Grandpa a kiss good night.
Whoa!
Ah!
You can whip me all you like,
white devil
but you'll never
break my spirit.
Damn. There must be some clue
to the source
of their mental
manipulation techniques.
"Your Body and You."
"Every four weeks
for three to four days
it's entirely normal
for every young woman to..."
Oh, my God! Oh!
That's the most disgusting thing
I've ever heard in my life!
Oh!
( girls talking )
That totally sucked.
You guys call yourselves
cheerleaders.
Well, I call you cheerlosers!
This Cindi is definitely
the alpha of the group.
And what happened
with the pyramid?
I almost broke my neck.
( gasps ):
The pyramid!
Of course.
That must be the key
to their power.
Mission objective:
eliminate Cindi
and take her place
at the top of the pyramid.
( gasps ):
They're getting nude.
I mustn't watch.
It's not the proper thing to...
Whoa! I say, nice ones, Janine.
And look at Lisa
in all of her curvaceous glory.
Oh, Heavens, it appears
that my wee-wee
has been stricken
with rigor mortis.
Good morning.
Peter, what on earth
are you wearing?
It's a dashiki.
And don't call me Peter.
That's my slave name.
From now on, call me
Kichwa-Tembo.
Cool.
And I'll be Mambutu O'Malley.
Peter...
Kichwa.
I'd like to have
a word with you.
Peter, I think...
Kichwa!
( sighs ):
Kichwa, we're both sensible men.
There must be something I can do
to make things right with you.
Actually, there is.
I want reparations
just like
Cleveland got.
What the hell
are you talking about?
I want an apology and
some Rice Krispie treats.
Well, I absolutely will not
give you an apology.
And I'm assuming
"Rice Krispie treats"
is black slang for money,
so here's $10,000.
And I expect you
never to mention
this ugly business again.
$10,000?
Not enough? Fine, make it 20.
How do you spell "Kichwa"?
You know what,
screw the Kichwa.
Make it out to Peter.
P-E-T-E...
This just in: Slave owner
descendant Carter Pewterschmidt
has paid $20,000
or two million pennies
in reparations
to a local black man.
We now go live
to the local black man.
Well, the money helps, but I'll
always feel my ancestors' pain.
( laughs ):
Hey, from down there does it look like
I'm talking into
a bunch of robot penises?
Hey, Lois, come in here
and see what I did
with the money your dad gave me.
( gasps ):
Oh, my God.
You turned the den
into Pee Wee's Playhouse?
♪♪ Come on, get up ♪♪
♪♪ Knock off your napping ♪♪
♪♪ It's a crazy messed-up place
where anything can happen ♪♪
♪♪ There's a chair that
freakin' talks, hey look! ♪♪
♪♪ There's some fish
that give advice, holy crap! ♪♪
♪♪ It's screwy
in Peter's Playhouse ♪♪
-Peter...
-Wait, wait, wait. Watch this.
Hey, Jambi!
Okay, say it.
Mekka-lekka-hi, mekka-hiney...
God, I hate you so much.
Peter, that reparation money
should be going to
a worthy black charity.
Lois, the King of Cartoons
will be here in five minutes
and I will not have you
embarrass me.
You're acting ridiculous.
( yelling ):
Aggh!
You said the secret word!
( siren blares )
Uh-oh.
Hey, you're
that black guy
I saw on the news
conference, ain't ya?
Uh, yeah, that's me.
This is car 15, I'm
going to need backup.
I've got a stolen
vehicle here.
-But this is my car...
-Suspect's getting belligerent.
What?
Officer down.
So it's agreed.
We'll keep on pretending
to like pigs' feet
simply to confound
the white man.
Oh, sorry I'm late, you guys.
The white man was
making me his bitch.
What? Oh, sorry.
His be-yatch.
Peter, we know about
your selfish squandering
of your
reparation money.
I shared mine.
You, however, have given nothing
back to the community.
Uh, that's not true.
I've brought you
the greatest gift of all:
a child's laughter.
( high-pitched giggle )
Peter, I think you should go.
Yeah, I'm gone.
Hi, guys.
Uh, hey, how's it going?
Geez, Lois, no one
wants to sit with me.
It's like I'm
a freakin' leper.
Hey, can we
sit there?
No, these are saved.
Where is Cindi?
I don't know, but she
better show up soon.
It's almost half-time.
You know, Cindi, I'd
feel worse about this
if you didn't
spell your name
with that insufferable
"I" at the end.
Oh, and that
cockadoody smiley face you use to dot it.
You sicken me!
I'm not going to hurt you.
Ah!
Hello, Peter.
Nate Griffin.
Oh, my God,
you're haunting me
because I've been
a terrible black man.
Peter, you got to stop
putting so much
importance on race.
I know I didn't.
-You didn't?
-No.
If I had, do you think
I would've slept
with your white great-great-
great-great granny?
I guess not.
That's right.
And I wouldn't have slept
with her fine sister neither.
You see, Peter,
the most important thing
is how a man acts.
You know what I'm getting at?
You think I should
do something good
with that reparation money,
don't you?
That'd be mighty fine,
Peter.
Eh, I guess
you're right.
Listen, for what it's worth
I'm real sorry
my wife's ancestors
made you suffer so much.
Oh, don't worry about me.
If it makes you
feel any better
I peed in their cereal
every morning.
Hehehehehe!
Well, so long, Peter.
Wait, wait, wait.
Before you go...
what's heaven like?
Oh, it's fine.
There's a shortage of chairs.
Oh.
Yeah.
Take it easy, Peter.
Okay, look, we're just going
to have to go on without her.
( up-tempo music starts )
Give me a "D"!
"D"!
That's enough of that.
There's a large hunting knife
under each one of your seats.
Oh, my command, I want you to...
Aah!
Ah! You idiots, I had them!
Oh, Cindi was right.
We need a lot more work.
Uh, excuse me.
Yeah, uh, hi, I'm Peter Griffin.
Listen, uh,
as many of you may know
I recently came into some money.
Well, I don't really deserve it.
So I've decided to share it
with my brothers.
Uh, actually, I just meant
the black guys. Uh.
Peter, that was
very generous.
And look how happy
you've made everyone.
Yeah, it just goes
to show you, Lois.
It doesn't matter if
you're black or white
the only color that
really matters is green.
Oh, Peter.
I wonder what
happened to Cindi.
Dear diary...
jackpot.
( rap version
of theme song plays )